Was it just another game of hide and seek? No. It was not. First, she fell into a deep, dark hole in the ground and then they found a treasure. Did it end there? No! It did not. Read more about this thrilling adventure of Sally and friends in this free illustrated kids’ book. The fun never ends when Sally’s around!

It is illegal to use this free children's book for commercial without giving us credit by linking to our website www.monkeypen.com. Teachers and Educational Institutions, please read our T&C before making any use of monkeypen books.

Please share our books with your friends and family to support our mission. Thank you

 Free Children's Book Facebook Share	Free Children's Book Twitter Share	Free Children's Book Linkedin Share	Whatsapp Social Share
Download Free PDF Book




Click here to read more Free Children's books

Free Children's Book
A simple game of hide-and-seek leads the children into the adventure of their lives.
An exciting story that will have little readers turning the pages, eager to know what comes next.

Free Children's Book
James, his sister Sally, and Mark, their BFF (Best Friend Forever) were bored. They had played all day but now that it was dark and difficult to see, they had nothing to do.
They couldn’t play soccer because they couldn’t see the ball. They didn’t want to go inside and play a game because it was a beautiful springtime night and they liked being outside, especially after having to play inside all winter long. They just didn’t know what to do and it was a little too early for them to go home.
“I guess I’ll just go home,” Mark said in a sad voice. “Aww come on,” replied James. “We still have time for another game of – of something.”
Then Sally said, “I have an idea! Let’s play Hide-and Seek.”

Free Children's Book
“I was just going to say that,” James said. “Yah, I’ll bet,” replied his sister. “You always say you were thinking of whatever I think of,” she snapped. “Do not!” James said in a loud voice. “Do too,” yelled Sally.
Mark just looked down at the ground and shook his head from side to side. “They are at it again,” he mumbled to himself. Then he yelled, “Okay, let’s play Hide-and-Seek
I’ll be the seeker!”
He turned, faced a big tree, closed his eyes, and started counting out loud. “100 – 99 – 98 – 97 …..” Sally and Mark stopped arguing, looked at each other, and ran off in different directions to find a hiding place.
In the distance they could still hear Mark counting
“4 – 3 – 2 – 1. Ready or not, here
I come!” Then he turned and began looking for places
where they could be hiding.

Free Children's Book
Finding Sally was easy.
She always ran off and then circled back
so she would be close to “base,”
the safe place to get to before being tagged.
Mark looked for the biggest tree
and ran towards it.
But she wasn’t there.
“I’ll bet she’s behind that big bush,”
he said to himself.
So he ran to it and was ready to tag her,
but she wasn’t there either.

Free Children's Book
As he turned around, he saw James running towards
“base” and darted after him. Just before
he touched James’ shoulder, James tagged the “base”
and yelled out “SAFE!” “Did you get Sally yet?”
James asked. “No,” said Mark.
“I haven’t been able to find her and it’s getting late and
we need to be heading home.”

Free Children's Book
So both boys yelled out
“Come on out Sally, it’s late.”
But there was no reply.
Not even a little snicker from
somewhere in the darkness.
They yelled again.
“Come on out Sally, it’s late.”
Still there was no reply from Sally.
They began to worry and started searching for her. As they walked around the area they called out “Sally, come on, we give up; you’re safe.”
But no matter where they looked,
or how much they called out,

Free Children's Book
Sally was wondering what had happened.
All she could remember was
crawling under the big trunk
of a fallen tree to hide.
Now, as she looked up, she saw
several stars through a small hole above her head.
She had fallen into a hole
when she crawled under the tree trunk.
“Help!” she yelled and heard her voice
echo throughout what must have been a cave.
“HELP! Help, help, help!”

Free Children's Book
“Did you hear that, James?”
Mark said excitedly.
“Sally just yelled for help.”
“Keep yelling Sally,” James screamed.
“That way we can find you.”
Sally heard her brother and
kept screaming. After a short while the boys were standing next to the big tree trunk.
“Hey! Are you stuck under this tree?”
asked James. “Kind of,” Sally yelled.
“When I crawled under
it to hide, I fell into a cave.
Please help me, I’m scared.
It’s dark and I can’t get out.”

Free Children's Book
Mark said,
“James you stay with Sally and
I will go get my dad.”
Then he dashed off into the darkness.
“Don’t be scared,” James said.
“I am right here with you.”
“No, you’re not,” Sally sobbed.
“You’re up there and I’m down here.”
As Sally turned in the darkness of the cave,
she bumped into something,
screamed, and began to cry.

Free Children's Book
“What’s wrong?” James yelled.
“There’s something down here with me,”
Sally replied in a shaky voice.
Just then, Mark and his dad came
running through the woods.
Mark’s father knelt down and asked Sally
if she was okay. He could hear her crying and sobbing. “Sally, are you hurt?”
he asked. “No,” she said.
“But I’m scared and there is
something down here with me.”
“Stand back Sally.
I am lowering a rope and
will be down with you in a second.”

Free Children's Book
Mark’s dad tied the rope to the tree,
found the hole under the tree trunk,
wiggled a bit, and lowered
himself into the cave.
Sally could see him coming down
the rope and stopped crying.
Not only was he there but the cave became
brighter from the beam of
his flashlight as it danced
across the cave’s floor and walls.

Free Children's Book
As he reached the floor of the cave,
he shone the light on Sally and gave
her a big hug. “Don’t be frightened,”
he said. “I’ll have you out of here in no time.”
Then he shone the light around
and saw that she had fallen into a small cave.
And very close to her,
in the middle of the cave,
was something wrapped in layers
of old blankets.

Free Children's Book
“Mark, James, there’s something down here.
I am going to tie it to the rope and I want you to
pull it out.” “Okay,” they replied.
The boys pulled out the object, untied it,
and let the loose end of
the rope fall back into the cave.
The cave wasn’t deep and Marks’
dad boosted Sally over his head so she could
crawl out. He then grabbed
the rope and with a little jump, was
able to grab the opening
and pull himself out.

Free Children's Book
“Let’s go back to my house for a cup of hot tea.
I’ll call your parents so they aren’t worried,
and we’ll see what treasure Sally found.” He said.

Free Children's Book
When they got to Mark’s house,
they sipped their tea and began unwrapping the treasure.
They carefully peeled off layers of old blankets
and cloth to reveal a wooden box.
They slowly opened it and stared in amazement.

Free Children's Book
“Oh my,” Sally said in disbelief.
“I don’t believe what I am seeing.”
The boys and Mark’s father just stared.
Inside the box were jewels of every color you could imagine. There were diamonds,rubies, sapphires, and emeralds
of all shapes and sizes.Intermixed they could see several
gold coins and strands of pearls.“We’re rich,” the boys screamed. “Not quite,” interrupted Mark’s father. “Someone could have lost this and I don’t think you should plan on spending any of it until we find out a little more. Besides, Sally found it.” “I’ll share it,” Sally said happily. “That’s nice Sally,” replied Marks dad. But the right thing
to do is contact the authorities.”

Free Children's Book
The next day, the four of them
and Sally’s mother drove to the police station,
explained what had happened,
and gave the treasure to the police to hold while
they conducted their investigation.
They left the police station sadly
and even the double dipped ice cream cones
Mark’s father bought for them
didn’t make them smile.They drove back in silence.

Free Children's Book
Several weeks passed with
no word from the police.
Then, one evening, Mark’s father
called James, Sally, and their parents.
“The police just called and
I think you should come over right now,”
he said. “I’m afraid there is some
bad news about the treasure.
The police are on their way and
will explain everything when you get here.”

Free Children's Book
Sally and James didn’t say
much during the ride to Mark’s house.
Sally thought that since it was
“bad news” the treasure belonged
to someone else, even though
they probably lost it.
“Whatever happened to ‘finders-keepers’?”
she mumbled. “What did you say Sally?”
her mother asked. “Oh, nothing.”
Sally replied. Then she let out
a long, sad sigh that echoed
through the car.

Free Children's Book
When they arrived at Mark’s house,
the police were there with the treasure box.
As Sally entered,
the captain introduced himself and said,
“Sally, this is yours.
Your parents need to sign
some papers but the box and its
contents are yours.”

Free Children's Book
Sally, Mark, and James
shrieked with joy and danced
around the room. Then Sally said,
“What is the bad news?”
The captain smiled and said.
“The treasure is worth more money than
you can imagine and with your
new found wealth comes
great responsibility.” Sally didn’t quite understand
what the captain was talking about and right now
it really didn’t matter.

Free Children's Book
Mark asked,
“Are you going to share?”
“Of course,” Sally said.
“If you and James didn’t help me
I might still be there.”
Several days later Sally asked
everyone over to her house.
“I have decided what to do with
the money from the treasure after it is sold,”
she said.
“I am giving 1/6 to our Mom and Dad,
1/6 to Mark’s Mom and Dad,
1/6 to Mark, 1/6 to James, and 1/6 for me.”
“There is an extra 1/6,”
Mark proudly stated. He loved math
and was right on top of Sally’s calculations.

Free Children's Book
“No there’s not,” Sally said.
“Is too,” James said. “Is not,”
Sally said in an angered voice. Just as
Mark was going to say,
“They are at it again,” Sally said,
“This is why there isn’t an extra 1/6!
I am giving it to the local charity, so
it can be given to those less
fortunate and in need.”
Her mother and father said
it was a caring and responsible thing to do.
They were very proud of her and knew that she
understood what the captain meant when he had turned
the treasure over to her just days before.





Free Children's Book

 Please share our books with your friends and family to support our mission. Thank you

 Free Children's Book Facebook Share	Free Children's Book Twitter Share	Free Children's Book Linkedin Share	Whatsapp Social Share
Download Free PDF Book




Click here to read more Free Children's books

kripasagar kumar

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email
Age 4 to 7 / Age 8 to 12 / Free Children's Books
Older Post
Newer Post
FEATURED COLLECTION
Personalised name children's bookPersonalised Children Book
MY SELFIES AT THE ZOO | PERSONALISED CHILDREN BOOK
from €11,95

46 reviews

personalised children's book for girl
ME AND THE SEA | PERSONALISED CHILDREN BOOK
from €11,95

34 reviews

Personalised children book my favorite birthday present
MY FAVORITE BIRTHDAY PRESENT | PERSONALISED CHILDREN BOOK
from €11,95

39 reviews
VIEW ALL PERSONALISED BOOKS
NEWSLETTER
Subscribe to our newsletter to receive FREE Books every week and exclusive offers

Email
email@example.com
 SUBSCRIBE
HELP?
Why Choose Us
How It Works
Photo Advice
Delivery
Cancel or Change Order
110% Money Back Guarantee
Canvas and Size
F.A.Q
Refund policy
Site Map
Contact Us

USEFUL LINKS
About Us
Blog
Free Children's Books
Free Colouring Books
Free Colouring Pages
Free Educational Posters
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Why Choose Us
Terms of Service
Refund policy

CONTACT US
+44 2084 32 32 82

13 Bramshill Close
London England
IG7 4BU United Kingdom

Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Instagram
YouTube

OUR MISSION
Thank you for visiting. Our Mission is to provide 10 thousand Free Children's Books to young readers around the globe. Please support us by buying our Personalised Children’s Book or donate at Patreon

